<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">

<refentryinfo>
<title>kded5 User's Manual</title>
<author>
<firstname>David</firstname>
<surname>Faure</surname>
<contrib>Maintainer</contrib>
<affiliation>
<address><email>faure@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<author>
<firstname>Waldo</firstname>
<surname>Bastian</surname>
<contrib>Original author</contrib>
<affiliation>
<address><email>bastian@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<date>2014-03-22</date>
<releaseinfo>Frameworks 5.0</releaseinfo>
<productname>KDE Frameworks</productname>

</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>kded5</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>8</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>kded5</command></refname>
<refpurpose>&kde; daemon - triggers Sycoca database updates when needed.</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<title>Synopsis</title>

<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kded5</command>
<arg choice="opt">--check</arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>

<para><command>kded5</command> consolidates several small services in one process. These are mostly &DBus; services provided by KDED modules, but it also manages sycoca (a binary cache of servicetypes, &MIME; types and services used by KService) and KConfig update scripts as needed.</para>

<para>For sycoca, it monitors the directories containing .desktop files. When a file is added/removed, it waits 5 seconds (in case of a series of updates), and then launches <command>kbuildsycoca5</command> to update the sycoca.</para>

<para>For KConfig, it checks newly-installed update files, &ie; the *.upd files used to update configuration files of users when the configuration file formats changes, and runs the KConfig update utility to perform the updates.</para>

<para>Those tasks are also run when <command>kded5</command> is started to ensure that the user configuration is up to date.</para>

<para>You do not normally need to run <command>kded5</command> directly; &plasma; desktop sessions run it automatically, and it is started on demand when an application attempts to use a &DBus; interface provided by it or one of its modules.</para>

</refsect1>



<refsect1>
<title>Options</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--check</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Check the sycoca database, updating it if necessary, and exit.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>



<refsect1>
<title>Configuration</title>

<para><command>kded5</command> can be configured with the <filename>kded5rc</filename> ini-style configuration file. On &UNIX; systems, this can be found at <filename><varname>$XDG_CONFIG_HOME</varname>/kded5rc</filename>; if <varname>$XDG_CONFIG_HOME</varname> is not set, this defaults to <filename>~/.config/kded5rc</filename>.</para>

<para>Configuration file entries are read on-demand, so changes can be made while <command>kded5</command> is running. However, all the current configuration options only really affect the startup behaviour of <command>kded5</command>.</para>

<para>The <option>[General]</option> section has the following options:
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>CheckSycoca</option></term>
<listitem><para>Whether to update sycoca at startup (default: <constant>true</constant>).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>CheckUpdates</option></term>
<listitem><para>Whether to perform outstanding KConfig updates at startup (default: <constant>true</constant>).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>CheckFileStamps</option></term>
<listitem><para>Whether to check file timestamps when performing the initial sycoca update (default: <constant>true</constant>). See the documentation for <command>kbuildsycoca5</command> for more details.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>DelayedCheck</option></term>
<listitem><para>Whether to delay the initial sycoca update until about a minute after starting (default: <constant>false</constant>).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</para>

<para>Each module also has a <option>[Module-<replaceable>name</replaceable>]</option> section in <filename>kded5rc</filename>, where <replaceable>name</replaceable> is the name of the module's desktop file without the <filename>.desktop</filename> extension. This contains an <option>autoload</option> option that specifies whether the module should be automatically loaded when <command>kded5</command> is started (default: <constant>false</constant>). Note that this setting can also be changed via <command>kded5</command>'s &DBus; interface.</para>
</refsect1>



<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>
<para>
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>kbuildsycoca5</refentrytitle><manvolnum>8</manvolnum></citerefentry>,
<citerefentry><refentrytitle>kdeinit5</refentrytitle><manvolnum>8</manvolnum></citerefentry>
</para>
</refsect1>



<refsect1>
<title>Bugs</title>
<para>Please use <ulink url="https://bugs.kde.org">&kde;'s bugtracker</ulink> to report bugs.</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
