<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % Turkish "INCLUDE"
><!-- change language only here -->
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">

<refentryinfo>
<title
>kded6 User's Manual</title>
<author
><firstname
>David</firstname
> <surname
>Faure</surname
> <contrib
>Bakımcı</contrib>
<affiliation>
<address
><email
>faure@kde.org</email
></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<author
><firstname
>Waldo</firstname
> <surname
>Bastian</surname
> <contrib
>Özgün yazar</contrib>
<affiliation>
<address
><email
>bastian@kde.org</email
></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<date
>2023-06-22</date>
<releaseinfo
>Frameworks 6</releaseinfo>
<productname
>KDE Frameworks</productname>

</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle
><command
>kded6</command
></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum
>8</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname
><command
>kded6</command
></refname>
<refpurpose
>&kde; ardalan süreci, gerektiğinde Sycoca veritabanını günceller.</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<title
>Özet</title>

<cmdsynopsis
><command
>kded6</command
> <arg choice="opt"
>--check</arg
> </cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title
>Açıklama</title>

<para
><command
>kded6</command
> consolidates several small services in one process. These are mostly &DBus; services provided by KDED modules, but it also manages sycoca (a binary cache of servicetypes, &MIME; types and services used by KService) and KConfig update scripts as needed.</para>

<para
>For sycoca, it monitors the directories containing .desktop files. When a file is added/removed, it waits 5 seconds (in case of a series of updates), and then launches <command
>kbuildsycoca6</command
> to update the sycoca.</para>

<para
>KConfig için yeni kurulan güncelleme dosyalarını denetler, örn. yapılandırma dosyası biçimleri değiştiğinde kullanıcıların yapılandırma dosyalarını güncellemek için kullanılan *.upd dosyaları ve güncellemeleri gerçekleştirmek için KConfig güncelleme izlencesini çalıştırır.</para>

<para
>Those tasks are also run when <command
>kded6</command
> is started to ensure that the user configuration is up to date.</para>

<para
>You do not normally need to run <command
>kded6</command
> directly; &plasma; desktop sessions run it automatically, and it is started on demand when an application attempts to use a &DBus; interface provided by it or one of its modules.</para>

</refsect1>



<refsect1>
<title
>Seçenekler</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><option
>--check</option
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>sycoca veritabanını denetleyin, gerekliyse güncelleyin ve çıkın. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>



<refsect1>
<title
>Yapılandırma</title>

<para
><command
>kded6</command
> can be configured with the <filename
>kded6rc</filename
> ini-style configuration file. On &UNIX; systems, this can be found at <filename
><varname
>$XDG_CONFIG_HOME</varname
>/kded6rc</filename
>; if <varname
>$XDG_CONFIG_HOME</varname
> is not set, this defaults to <filename
>~/.config/kded6rc</filename
>.</para>

<para
>Configuration file entries are read on-demand, so changes can be made while <command
>kded6</command
> is running. However, all the current configuration options only really affect the startup behaviour of <command
>kded6</command
>.</para>

<para
><option
>[Genel]</option
> bölümü şu seçenekleri içerir: <variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><option
>CheckSycoca</option
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Sycoca'nın açılışta güncellenip güncellenmeyeceği (öntanımlı: <constant
>true</constant
>).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><option
>CheckUpdates</option
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Kalmış KConfig güncellemelerinin açılışta yapılıp yapılmayacağı (öntanımlı: <constant
>true</constant
>).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><option
>CheckFileStamps</option
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Whether to check file timestamps when performing the initial sycoca update (default: <constant
>true</constant
>). See the documentation for <command
>kbuildsycoca6</command
> for more details.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><option
>DelayedCheck</option
></term>
<listitem
><para
>İlk sycoca güncellemesinin başlangıçtan bir dakika sonraya kadar geciktirilip geciktirilmemesi (öntanımlı: <constant
>false</constant
>).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</para>

<para
>Each module also has a <option
>[Module-<replaceable
>name</replaceable
>]</option
> section in <filename
>kded6rc</filename
>, where <replaceable
>name</replaceable
> is the name of the module's desktop file without the <filename
>.desktop</filename
> extension. This contains an <option
>autoload</option
> option that specifies whether the module should be automatically loaded when <command
>kded6</command
> is started (default: <constant
>false</constant
>). Note that this setting can also be changed via <command
>kded6</command
>'s &DBus; interface.</para>
</refsect1>



<refsect1>
<title
>Ayrıca Bakınız</title>
<para
><citerefentry
><refentrytitle
>kbuildsycoca6</refentrytitle
><manvolnum
>8</manvolnum
></citerefentry
>, <citerefentry
><refentrytitle
>kdeinit6</refentrytitle
><manvolnum
>8</manvolnum
></citerefentry
> </para>
</refsect1>



<refsect1>
<title
>Hatalar</title>
<para
>Hataları bildirmek için lütfen <ulink url="https://bugs.kde.org"
>&kde;'nin hata izleyicisini</ulink
> kullanın.</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
